---
title: "FastMapSVM for Predicting CSP Satisfiability"
collection: publications
category: conferences
permalink: /publication/cp2023
date: 2023-01-01
venue: 'Proceedings of the Twenty-Ninth International Conference on Principles and Practice of Constraint Programming (CP-2023)'
paperurl: 'http://kellyzhengusc.github.io/files/cp23.pdf'
---
AAAAAA

Recognizing the satisfiability of Constraint Satisfaction Problems (CSPs) is NP-hard. Although several Machine Learning (ML) approaches have attempted this task by casting it as a binary classification problem, they have had only limited success for a variety of challenging reasons. First, the NP-hardness of the task does not make it amenable to straightforward approaches. Second, CSPs come in various forms and sizes while many ML algorithms impose the same form and size on their training and test instances. Third, the representation of a CSP instance is not unique since the variables and their domain values are unordered. In this paper, we propose FastMapSVM, a recently developed ML framework that leverages a distance function between pairs of objects. We define a novel distance function between two CSP instances using maxflow computations. This distance function is well defined for CSPs of different sizes. It is also invariant to the ordering on the variables and their domain values. Therefore, our framework has broader applicability compared to other approaches. We discuss various representational and combinatorial advantages of FastMapSVM. Through experiments, we also show that it outperforms other state-of-the-art ML approaches.
